README.md, before:

# OCR Worker (Phase 3.5 Worker + Phase 5 OCR Adapter + Phase 6/6.5 Semantics + Phase 7 Diff + Phase 8 Aggregation + Phase 9 Event Store + Phase 10 Notifications + Phase 11 Lifecycle Gate + Phase 12 Notification Store + Phase 13 Background Deployment Loop)

Current state:

- Phase 3.5 worker validates noise-tolerant versioning before OCR (`main.py`)
- Phase 5 adds real PaddleOCR box extraction adapter + golden sample tests (`ocr/paddle_adapter.py`)
- Phase 6 adds deterministic semantic normalization utilities (`parser/semantic_normalizer.py`)
- Phase 6.5 adds deterministic entity fingerprinting (`parser/entity_identity.py`)
- Phase 7 adds deterministic schedule change detection (`domain/schedule_diff.py`)
- Phase 8 adds deterministic multi-image session aggregation (`domain/session_aggregate.py`)
- Phase 9 adds durable event/snapshot persistence (`infra/event_store.py`)
- Phase 10 adds deterministic event-to-human notification rules (`domain/notification_rules.py`)
- Phase 11 adds deterministic idle/finalization lifecycle gating (`domain/session_lifecycle.py`)
- Phase 12 adds durable notification persistence (`infra/notification_store.py`)
- Phase 13 adds continuously running worker runtime + Docker deployment (`worker/run_forever.py`, `Dockerfile`)

Phase 3.5 worker capabilities:

- PostgreSQL connectivity
- at-most-one session claim per run using `FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED`
- lease semantics:
  - prefers `state = 'closed'`
  - reclaims stale `state = 'processing'` when lease is expired
- runtime-selectable input source:
  - `fixture` mode from local JSON (`fixtures/sample_schedule.json`)
  - `ocr` mode from session images in R2 (PaddleOCR + deterministic layout/semantic parsing)
- optional deterministic chaos parser (seeded format noise)
- canonical normalization before hashing/writes
- deterministic payload hash from canonical normalized JSON
- per-date version progression (`current_version + 1`, else `1`)
- no-change dedupe: if canonical payload hash matches latest version, no new `schedule_version` is inserted
- per-date transactional advisory lock ensures deterministic dedupe under concurrency
- inserts use `ON CONFLICT ... DO NOTHING RETURNING` to classify create-vs-existing outcomes via DB result
- ownership-guarded insert/finalization (`locked_by` must match claimer)
- session transition: `processing -> done | failed`, clearing lease fields
- deterministic pre-OCR layout parser module for OCR-like boxes (`parser/layout_parser.py`)

Phase 5 adapter capabilities (not yet wired into `main.py` DB write path):

- PaddleOCR models:
  - `PP-OCRv5_mobile_det`
  - `PP-OCRv5_mobile_rec`
- Paddle options:
  - `use_doc_orientation_classify=False`
  - `use_doc_unwarping=False`
  - `use_textline_orientation=False`
- conversion only: Paddle polygons/text/scores -> box geometry (`x`, `y`, `w`, `h`) + confidence
- no adapter-side filtering/grouping/normalization; parser remains source of layout grouping truth

Phase 6 semantic normalization capabilities (module-level, deterministic):

- normalize parsed entries into canonical shift fields:
  - `customer_name`, `street`, `street_number`, `postal_code`, `postal_area`, `city`, `shift_type`, `raw_type_label`
- Swedish-oriented address decomposition heuristics:
  - postal code pattern `NNN NN`
  - street + house number extraction
  - trailing city/place normalization
- title/customer cleanup:
  - collapse whitespace
  - normalize case/diacritics
  - remove common company suffix noise tokens (`AB`, `HB`, `Städservice`)
- deterministic shift classification tags:
  - `WORK`, `TRAVEL`, `TRAINING`, `BREAK`, `MEETING`, `ADMIN`, `LEAVE`, `UNAVAILABLE`, `UNKNOWN`
- dynamic raw job/activity label capture:
  - `raw_type_label` stores parser-observed type text (e.g., `Stadservice`, `Lunch`, `Restid`, `Utbildning`)
  - fixed `shift_type` remains normalized for stable diffing/aggregation
- identity fields included in canonical shift output:
  - `location_fingerprint`
  - `customer_fingerprint`

Phase 6.5 identity fingerprinting capabilities:

- location identity key built from semantic location fields:
  - normalized `street`, `street_number`, and (`postal_area` or `city`)
- customer identity key built from normalized name tokens:
  - company suffix noise removed
  - token order stabilized by surname + initials
- OCR confusion tolerance in keys:
  - accent stripping, case/whitespace collapse
  - `0/O` and `1/l/I` canonicalization

Phase 7 change-detection capabilities:

- compares canonical shift lists between schedule versions
- matching key is identity-first and date-scoped:
  - `(location_fingerprint, customer_fingerprint, schedule_date)`
- for duplicate identity groups on the same date, pairing uses greedy minimum time distance:
  - `|start_old-start_new| + |end_old-end_new|`
- emits deterministic events:
  - `ShiftAdded`
  - `ShiftRemoved`
  - `ShiftTimeChanged`
  - `ShiftRelocated`
  - `ShiftRetitled`
  - `ShiftReclassified`
- order-insensitive: pure reorder of unchanged shifts emits no events

Phase 8 session aggregation capabilities:

- input: `list[list[CanonicalShift]]` (one shift list per screenshot in same capture session)
- merge key within session:
  - same `location_fingerprint`
  - time distance `<= 5` minutes (`|start_old-start_new| + |end_old-end_new|`)
- time distance is circular over 24h to support cross-midnight shifts
- containment fallback: merge partial observations when one time range contains the other (same identity)
- merge policy:
  - keep earliest start
  - keep latest end
  - preserve location identity
  - prefer longer address fields
  - keep best available customer naming/fingerprint consistency
- output: `AggregatedDaySchedule` with deduplicated `AggregatedShift` items and per-shift `source_count`

Phase 9 event-store capabilities:

- persists diff output as immutable event rows:
  - `shift_added`
  - `shift_removed`
  - `shift_time_changed`
  - `shift_relocated`
  - `shift_retitled`
  - `shift_reclassified`
- stores semantic old/new values per event (canonical shift payloads)
- stores event identity anchors:
  - `location_fingerprint`
  - `customer_fingerprint`
- idempotency protection:
  - dedupe key `(user_id, schedule_date, location_fingerprint, event_type, old_value_hash, new_value_hash)`
  - duplicate semantic events are ignored on retry via DB uniqueness + `ON CONFLICT DO NOTHING`
- upserts latest day snapshot state for future diff baselines
- supports pipeline step:
  - load previous snapshot -> diff -> persist events -> update snapshot
- monotonic-history invariant:
  - chronological replay of persisted events reconstructs the stored day snapshot

Phase 10 notification-rule capabilities:

- maps persisted semantic events to human-readable notification text:
  - `shift_added`
  - `shift_removed`
  - `shift_time_changed`
  - `shift_relocated`
  - `shift_reclassified`
  - `shift_retitled`
- uses canonical fields only (`start`, `end`, `city`, `shift_type`, `customer_name`)
- `shift_time_changed` rendering is range-aware:
  - start-only change -> `old_start -> new_start`
  - end-only change -> `ends old_end -> new_end`
  - full-range change -> `old_start-old_end -> new_start-new_end`
- noise suppression:
  - if event count for same `(user_id, date, source_session)` reaches threshold (default `3`), emits one summary notification
- replay dedupe:
  - supports `already_notified_event_ids` filter so reruns do not produce duplicate notifications

Phase 11 session-lifecycle capabilities (module-level, pre-worker wiring):

- detects finalizable sessions when:
  - session is in configurable `open_state` (default: `closed`)
  - session has at least one image
  - `now - max(capture_image.created_at) >= idle_timeout_seconds` (default: `25s`)
- finalization gate is atomic:
  - `open_state -> processing_state` only if row is still open
- provides deterministic one-cycle runner:
  - `find_finalizable_sessions -> finalize_session -> process_finalized_session`
- processing helper emits notifications once and advances state to configurable processed state (default: `done`)
- race-safe behavior:
  - concurrent finalizers on the same session result in one winner
  - rerun after processed state emits no additional notifications

Phase 12 notification-store capabilities (infrastructure persistence):

- persists user-facing notifications in `schedule_notification`
- writes deterministic notification IDs from Phase 10 as idempotent primary keys
- persists delivery state fields for bot handoff:
  - `status` (`pending`, `sent`, `failed`)
  - `sent_at` (nullable)
- supports both dataclass and dict notification payload inputs
- stores normalized envelope fields:
  - `notification_id`, `user_id`, `schedule_date`, `source_session_id`, `status`
  - `notification_type`, `message`, `event_ids`, `created_at`
- runtime message enrichment includes source image filename suffix from `capture_image.r2_key` basename(s)
  - single image: `(... image: <filename>)`
  - multi image: `(... images: <filename1>, <filename2>, ...)`
- lifecycle wiring supports:
  - `events -> build_notifications(events) -> store_notifications(notifications)`
  - one processing run per finalized session persists notifications once

Phase 13 background runtime capabilities:

- dedicated long-running worker module: `worker/run_forever.py`
- infinite lifecycle loop:
  - run one lifecycle iteration
  - sleep `WORKER_POLL_SECONDS`
  - repeat forever
- selectable runtime input mode:
  - `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=fixture` (dev/testing, local JSON payload)
  - `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr` (production, R2 download + PaddleOCR + parser pipeline)
- resilient operation:
  - per-iteration exception handling with stdout logging
  - process continues after errors
- structured JSON logging contract:
  - core fields on every log line:
    - `timestamp` (UTC, ISO-8601 with `Z`)
    - `service` (`python-worker`)
    - `level`
    - `event`
    - `session_id`
    - `user_id`
    - `correlation_id` (session scoped)
- iteration logs include:
  - activity completion (`worker.iteration.finish`) with processed/generated/stored counts
  - idle heartbeat (`worker.iteration.idle`) at a throttled cadence (`WORKER_IDLE_LOG_EVERY`)
- semantic event logs include:
  - `session.skipped_idle`
  - `session.finalized`
  - `session.processed`
  - `session.images_loaded`
  - `ocr.completed`
  - `layout.shifts_detected`
  - `aggregation.completed`
  - `diff.computed`
  - `events.persisted`
  - `notifications.generated`
  - `notifications.stored`
- no HTTP server and no exposed ports
- Docker runtime image included:
  - base: `python:3.11-slim`
  - dependency install: `uv sync --frozen --no-dev --no-install-project`
  - default command: `python -m worker.run_forever`

## Setup

```bash
uv sync
```

Apply DB lease migration (once per environment):

```bash
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f database/migrations/20260212_add_session_leases.sql
```

Apply event history migration (Phase 9):

```bash
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f database/migrations/20260213_add_schedule_event_history.sql
```

Apply notification store migration (Phase 12):

```bash
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f database/migrations/20260213_add_schedule_notifications.sql
```

## Required Environment Variables

- `DATABASE_URL` (or `POSTGRES_DSN` or `TEST_DATABASE_URL`)

Optional:

- `DB_SCHEMA` (default: `schedule_ingest`)
- `WORKER_INPUT_MODE` (default: `fixture`; set `ocr` for real screenshot processing)
- `FIXTURE_PAYLOAD_PATH` (default: `fixtures/sample_schedule.json`)
- `OCR_DEFAULT_YEAR` (optional explicit fallback year if OCR date text omits year; when unset in `ocr` mode, worker defaults to current UTC year)
- `WORKER_POLL_SECONDS` (default: `5`)
- `WORKER_IDLE_LOG_EVERY` (default: `12`, log every N idle iterations; first idle iteration is always logged)
- `ENABLE_CHAOS_PARSER` (default: `false`)
- `CHAOS_SEED` (default: `0`)
- `WORKER_ID` (default: `worker-<pid>`)
- `LEASE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS` (default: `300`)
- `LEASE_HEARTBEAT_SECONDS` (default: `10`)
- `ENABLE_LEASE_HEARTBEAT` (default: `true`)
- `SIMULATED_WORK_SECONDS` (default: `0`, test hook)
- `SESSION_IDLE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS` (default: `25`, used by `domain/session_lifecycle.py`)
- `OPEN_STATE` (default: `closed`)
- `PENDING_STATE` (legacy alias for `OPEN_STATE`)
- `PROCESSING_STATE` (default: `processing`)
- `PROCESSED_STATE` (default: `done`)
- `DONE_STATE` (default: `done`)
- `FAILED_STATE` (default: `failed`)
- `R2_ENDPOINT_URL` (required when `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr`)
- `R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID` (required when `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr`)
- `R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` (required when `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr`)
- `R2_BUCKET` (required when `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr`)
- `R2_REGION` (default: `auto`)
- `R2_KEY_PREFIX` (optional object-key prefix)
- `PADDLE_PDX_DISABLE_MODEL_SOURCE_CHECK` (optional, recommended: `True` for container runtime)

## Fixture Payload Contract

Fixture payload must be a JSON object and include:

- `schedule_date`: ISO date string (`YYYY-MM-DD`)
- any additional deterministic fields (for now, sample uses `entries`)

Example:

```json
{
  "schedule_date": "2026-02-10",
  "entries": [
    {"start": "10:00", "end": "14:00", "title": "Cleaning", "location": "Billdal"}
  ]
}
```

## Layout Parser (Phase 4 Pre-OCR)

Module: `parser/layout_parser.py`

Main API:

```python
parse_layout(boxes: list[Box]) -> list[Entry]
```

Behavior:
- sorts boxes by geometry
- clusters boxes into lines
- groups lines into cards by vertical gaps
- extracts time/title/address/location per card
- ignores top UI chrome cards with no time line

## Run Once

```bash
uv run python main.py
```

The worker runs one claim/process cycle and exits.

## Run Forever (Background Worker)

```bash
uv run python -m worker.run_forever
```

The worker loops forever and periodically processes finalizable sessions.

## Docker Deployment

Build:

```bash
docker build -t telegram-ocr-worker:latest .
```

Run:

```bash
docker run --rm \
  -e DATABASE_URL="$DATABASE_URL" \
  -e WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr \
  -e WORKER_POLL_SECONDS=5 \
  -e SESSION_IDLE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS=25 \
  -e R2_ENDPOINT_URL="$R2_ENDPOINT_URL" \
  -e R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID="$R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID" \
  -e R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="$R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY" \
  -e R2_BUCKET="$R2_BUCKET" \
  -e PADDLE_PDX_DISABLE_MODEL_SOURCE_CHECK=True \
  telegram-ocr-worker:latest
```

Notes:
- no ports are exposed
- logs are emitted to stdout only

## Compose Service Labels (Promtail/Loki)

The worker service definition in `/Users/themis/Desktop/Dev/ocr/docker-compose.yml` includes container labels:

- `service=telegram-ocr-worker`
- `logging=promtail`

This allows Promtail to attach `service=telegram-ocr-worker` and enables Loki queries like:

```logql
{service="telegram-ocr-worker"}
```

## How To Test

1. Ensure at least one session is claimable:
   - `state = pending`, or
   - stale `state = processing` (`locked_at` older than lease timeout)
2. Run the worker once.
3. Verify for the processed session:
   - exactly one new row in `schedule_version`
   - `day_schedule.current_version` set/advanced by DB trigger
   - lease fields (`locked_at`, `locked_by`) cleared
   - `capture_session.state = done`
4. Edit fixture payload (e.g., change an entry time), enqueue a new session, rerun.
5. Verify:
   - new `schedule_version` row inserted with incremented version
   - previous versions remain immutable
   - `day_schedule.current_version` points to latest version
6. Noise stability check:
   - enqueue multiple sessions with identical semantic fixture data
   - run with `ENABLE_CHAOS_PARSER=true` and varying `CHAOS_SEED`
   - verify `schedule_version` count for that date stays `1`

### Integration Tests

If you provide `TEST_DATABASE_URL` (or `DATABASE_URL`), run:

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_layout_parser.py tests/test_main_worker.py tests/test_integration_claim_locking.py tests/test_integration_fixture_versioning.py
```

Coverage:
- claim/finalize race safety (`tests/test_integration_claim_locking.py`)
- fixture payload version timeline (`tests/test_integration_fixture_versioning.py`)
- chaos noise does not create phantom versions (`tests/test_integration_fixture_versioning.py`)
- synthetic layout reconstruction (single card, stacked cards, wrapped address, header ignore, jitter, landscape columns) (`tests/test_layout_parser.py`)
- unit checks for fixture parsing + insert SQL parameterization (`tests/test_main_worker.py`)

### OCR Adapter Golden Tests (No DB)

Uses real screenshot fixtures and verifies:
`image -> PaddleOCR boxes -> parse_layout -> expected entries`.

```bash
PADDLE_PDX_DISABLE_MODEL_SOURCE_CHECK=true uv run python -m unittest tests/test_paddle_adapter.py tests/test_ocr_golden_samples.py
```

### Semantic Normalizer Tests (No DB)

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_semantic_normalizer.py
```

### Entity Identity Tests (No DB)

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_entity_identity.py
```

### Schedule Diff Tests (No DB)

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_schedule_diff.py
```

### Session Aggregation Tests (No DB)

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_session_aggregate.py
```

### Event Store Tests (DB Integration)

Requires `TEST_DATABASE_URL` or `DATABASE_URL`:

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_event_store.py
```

### Notification Rules Tests (No DB)

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_notification_rules.py
```

### Session Lifecycle Tests (DB Integration)

Requires `TEST_DATABASE_URL` or `DATABASE_URL`:

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_session_lifecycle.py
```

### Notification Store Tests (DB Integration)

Requires `TEST_DATABASE_URL` or `DATABASE_URL`:

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_notification_store.py
```

## Invariants Enforced

- finalization requires lease ownership (`locked_by` guard in SQL)
- schedule version insert requires lease ownership (`locked_by` guard in SQL)
- one schedule_version per session (`UNIQUE(session_id)`)
- heartbeat safety check: `LEASE_HEARTBEAT_SECONDS < LEASE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS / 3`

Commit message:

Normalize raw type labels and activity phrase handling

README.md, after:

# OCR Worker (Phase 3.5 Worker + Phase 5 OCR Adapter + Phase 6/6.5 Semantics + Phase 7 Diff + Phase 8 Aggregation + Phase 9 Event Store + Phase 10 Notifications + Phase 11 Lifecycle Gate + Phase 12 Notification Store + Phase 13 Background Deployment Loop)

Current state:

- Phase 3.5 worker validates noise-tolerant versioning before OCR (`main.py`)
- Phase 5 adds real PaddleOCR box extraction adapter + golden sample tests (`ocr/paddle_adapter.py`)
- Phase 6 adds deterministic semantic normalization utilities (`parser/semantic_normalizer.py`)
- Phase 6.5 adds deterministic entity fingerprinting (`parser/entity_identity.py`)
- Phase 7 adds deterministic schedule change detection (`domain/schedule_diff.py`)
- Phase 8 adds deterministic multi-image session aggregation (`domain/session_aggregate.py`)
- Phase 9 adds durable event/snapshot persistence (`infra/event_store.py`)
- Phase 10 adds deterministic event-to-human notification rules (`domain/notification_rules.py`)
- Phase 11 adds deterministic idle/finalization lifecycle gating (`domain/session_lifecycle.py`)
- Phase 12 adds durable notification persistence (`infra/notification_store.py`)
- Phase 13 adds continuously running worker runtime + Docker deployment (`worker/run_forever.py`, `Dockerfile`)

Phase 3.5 worker capabilities:

- PostgreSQL connectivity
- at-most-one session claim per run using `FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED`
- lease semantics:
  - prefers `state = 'closed'`
  - reclaims stale `state = 'processing'` when lease is expired
- runtime-selectable input source:
  - `fixture` mode from local JSON (`fixtures/sample_schedule.json`)
  - `ocr` mode from session images in R2 (PaddleOCR + deterministic layout/semantic parsing)
- optional deterministic chaos parser (seeded format noise)
- canonical normalization before hashing/writes
- deterministic payload hash from canonical normalized JSON
- per-date version progression (`current_version + 1`, else `1`)
- no-change dedupe: if canonical payload hash matches latest version, no new `schedule_version` is inserted
- per-date transactional advisory lock ensures deterministic dedupe under concurrency
- inserts use `ON CONFLICT ... DO NOTHING RETURNING` to classify create-vs-existing outcomes via DB result
- ownership-guarded insert/finalization (`locked_by` must match claimer)
- session transition: `processing -> done | failed`, clearing lease fields
- deterministic pre-OCR layout parser module for OCR-like boxes (`parser/layout_parser.py`)

Phase 5 adapter capabilities (not yet wired into `main.py` DB write path):

- PaddleOCR models:
  - `PP-OCRv5_mobile_det`
  - `PP-OCRv5_mobile_rec`
- Paddle options:
  - `use_doc_orientation_classify=False`
  - `use_doc_unwarping=False`
  - `use_textline_orientation=False`
- conversion only: Paddle polygons/text/scores -> box geometry (`x`, `y`, `w`, `h`) + confidence
- no adapter-side filtering/grouping/normalization; parser remains source of layout grouping truth

Phase 6 semantic normalization capabilities (module-level, deterministic):

- normalize parsed entries into canonical shift fields:
  - `customer_name`, `street`, `street_number`, `postal_code`, `postal_area`, `city`, `shift_type`, `raw_type_label`
- Swedish-oriented address decomposition heuristics:
  - postal code pattern `NNN NN`
  - street + house number extraction
  - trailing city/place normalization
- title/customer cleanup:
  - collapse whitespace
  - normalize case/diacritics
  - remove common company suffix noise tokens (`AB`, `HB`, `Städservice`)
- deterministic shift classification tags:
  - `WORK`, `TRAVEL`, `TRAINING`, `BREAK`, `MEETING`, `ADMIN`, `LEAVE`, `UNAVAILABLE`, `UNKNOWN`
- dynamic raw job/activity label capture:
  - `raw_type_label` stores parser-observed type text (e.g., `Stadservice`, `Lunch`, `Restid`, `Utbildning`)
  - known OCR noise is normalized for stable labels (e.g., `Lunch 1` -> `Lunch`, `Fonsterputs D` -> `Fonsterputs`)
  - split activity phrases are rejoined when detected (e.g., `Ej Disponibel`)
  - fixed `shift_type` remains normalized for stable diffing/aggregation
- identity fields included in canonical shift output:
  - `location_fingerprint`
  - `customer_fingerprint`

Phase 6.5 identity fingerprinting capabilities:

- location identity key built from semantic location fields:
  - normalized `street`, `street_number`, and (`postal_area` or `city`)
- customer identity key built from normalized name tokens:
  - company suffix noise removed
  - token order stabilized by surname + initials
- OCR confusion tolerance in keys:
  - accent stripping, case/whitespace collapse
  - `0/O` and `1/l/I` canonicalization

Phase 7 change-detection capabilities:

- compares canonical shift lists between schedule versions
- matching key is identity-first and date-scoped:
  - `(location_fingerprint, customer_fingerprint, schedule_date)`
- for duplicate identity groups on the same date, pairing uses greedy minimum time distance:
  - `|start_old-start_new| + |end_old-end_new|`
- emits deterministic events:
  - `ShiftAdded`
  - `ShiftRemoved`
  - `ShiftTimeChanged`
  - `ShiftRelocated`
  - `ShiftRetitled`
  - `ShiftReclassified`
- order-insensitive: pure reorder of unchanged shifts emits no events

Phase 8 session aggregation capabilities:

- input: `list[list[CanonicalShift]]` (one shift list per screenshot in same capture session)
- merge key within session:
  - same `location_fingerprint`
  - time distance `<= 5` minutes (`|start_old-start_new| + |end_old-end_new|`)
- time distance is circular over 24h to support cross-midnight shifts
- containment fallback: merge partial observations when one time range contains the other (same identity)
- merge policy:
  - keep earliest start
  - keep latest end
  - preserve location identity
  - prefer longer address fields
  - keep best available customer naming/fingerprint consistency
- output: `AggregatedDaySchedule` with deduplicated `AggregatedShift` items and per-shift `source_count`

Phase 9 event-store capabilities:

- persists diff output as immutable event rows:
  - `shift_added`
  - `shift_removed`
  - `shift_time_changed`
  - `shift_relocated`
  - `shift_retitled`
  - `shift_reclassified`
- stores semantic old/new values per event (canonical shift payloads)
- stores event identity anchors:
  - `location_fingerprint`
  - `customer_fingerprint`
- idempotency protection:
  - dedupe key `(user_id, schedule_date, location_fingerprint, event_type, old_value_hash, new_value_hash)`
  - duplicate semantic events are ignored on retry via DB uniqueness + `ON CONFLICT DO NOTHING`
- upserts latest day snapshot state for future diff baselines
- supports pipeline step:
  - load previous snapshot -> diff -> persist events -> update snapshot
- monotonic-history invariant:
  - chronological replay of persisted events reconstructs the stored day snapshot

Phase 10 notification-rule capabilities:

- maps persisted semantic events to human-readable notification text:
  - `shift_added`
  - `shift_removed`
  - `shift_time_changed`
  - `shift_relocated`
  - `shift_reclassified`
  - `shift_retitled`
- uses canonical fields only (`start`, `end`, `city`, `shift_type`, `customer_name`)
- `shift_time_changed` rendering is range-aware:
  - start-only change -> `old_start -> new_start`
  - end-only change -> `ends old_end -> new_end`
  - full-range change -> `old_start-old_end -> new_start-new_end`
- noise suppression:
  - if event count for same `(user_id, date, source_session)` reaches threshold (default `3`), emits one summary notification
- replay dedupe:
  - supports `already_notified_event_ids` filter so reruns do not produce duplicate notifications

Phase 11 session-lifecycle capabilities (module-level, pre-worker wiring):

- detects finalizable sessions when:
  - session is in configurable `open_state` (default: `closed`)
  - session has at least one image
  - `now - max(capture_image.created_at) >= idle_timeout_seconds` (default: `25s`)
- finalization gate is atomic:
  - `open_state -> processing_state` only if row is still open
- provides deterministic one-cycle runner:
  - `find_finalizable_sessions -> finalize_session -> process_finalized_session`
- processing helper emits notifications once and advances state to configurable processed state (default: `done`)
- race-safe behavior:
  - concurrent finalizers on the same session result in one winner
  - rerun after processed state emits no additional notifications

Phase 12 notification-store capabilities (infrastructure persistence):

- persists user-facing notifications in `schedule_notification`
- writes deterministic notification IDs from Phase 10 as idempotent primary keys
- persists delivery state fields for bot handoff:
  - `status` (`pending`, `sent`, `failed`)
  - `sent_at` (nullable)
- supports both dataclass and dict notification payload inputs
- stores normalized envelope fields:
  - `notification_id`, `user_id`, `schedule_date`, `source_session_id`, `status`
  - `notification_type`, `message`, `event_ids`, `created_at`
- runtime message enrichment includes source image filename suffix from `capture_image.r2_key` basename(s)
  - single image: `(... image: <filename>)`
  - multi image: `(... images: <filename1>, <filename2>, ...)`
- lifecycle wiring supports:
  - `events -> build_notifications(events) -> store_notifications(notifications)`
  - one processing run per finalized session persists notifications once

Phase 13 background runtime capabilities:

- dedicated long-running worker module: `worker/run_forever.py`
- infinite lifecycle loop:
  - run one lifecycle iteration
  - sleep `WORKER_POLL_SECONDS`
  - repeat forever
- selectable runtime input mode:
  - `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=fixture` (dev/testing, local JSON payload)
  - `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr` (production, R2 download + PaddleOCR + parser pipeline)
- resilient operation:
  - per-iteration exception handling with stdout logging
  - process continues after errors
- structured JSON logging contract:
  - core fields on every log line:
    - `timestamp` (UTC, ISO-8601 with `Z`)
    - `service` (`python-worker`)
    - `level`
    - `event`
    - `session_id`
    - `user_id`
    - `correlation_id` (session scoped)
- iteration logs include:
  - activity completion (`worker.iteration.finish`) with processed/generated/stored counts
  - idle heartbeat (`worker.iteration.idle`) at a throttled cadence (`WORKER_IDLE_LOG_EVERY`)
- semantic event logs include:
  - `session.skipped_idle`
  - `session.finalized`
  - `session.processed`
  - `session.images_loaded`
  - `ocr.completed`
  - `layout.shifts_detected`
  - `aggregation.completed`
  - `diff.computed`
  - `events.persisted`
  - `notifications.generated`
  - `notifications.stored`
- no HTTP server and no exposed ports
- Docker runtime image included:
  - base: `python:3.11-slim`
  - dependency install: `uv sync --frozen --no-dev --no-install-project`
  - default command: `python -m worker.run_forever`

## Setup

```bash
uv sync
```

Apply DB lease migration (once per environment):

```bash
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f database/migrations/20260212_add_session_leases.sql
```

Apply event history migration (Phase 9):

```bash
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f database/migrations/20260213_add_schedule_event_history.sql
```

Apply notification store migration (Phase 12):

```bash
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f database/migrations/20260213_add_schedule_notifications.sql
```

## Required Environment Variables

- `DATABASE_URL` (or `POSTGRES_DSN` or `TEST_DATABASE_URL`)

Optional:

- `DB_SCHEMA` (default: `schedule_ingest`)
- `WORKER_INPUT_MODE` (default: `fixture`; set `ocr` for real screenshot processing)
- `FIXTURE_PAYLOAD_PATH` (default: `fixtures/sample_schedule.json`)
- `OCR_DEFAULT_YEAR` (optional explicit fallback year if OCR date text omits year; when unset in `ocr` mode, worker defaults to current UTC year)
- `WORKER_POLL_SECONDS` (default: `5`)
- `WORKER_IDLE_LOG_EVERY` (default: `12`, log every N idle iterations; first idle iteration is always logged)
- `ENABLE_CHAOS_PARSER` (default: `false`)
- `CHAOS_SEED` (default: `0`)
- `WORKER_ID` (default: `worker-<pid>`)
- `LEASE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS` (default: `300`)
- `LEASE_HEARTBEAT_SECONDS` (default: `10`)
- `ENABLE_LEASE_HEARTBEAT` (default: `true`)
- `SIMULATED_WORK_SECONDS` (default: `0`, test hook)
- `SESSION_IDLE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS` (default: `25`, used by `domain/session_lifecycle.py`)
- `OPEN_STATE` (default: `closed`)
- `PENDING_STATE` (legacy alias for `OPEN_STATE`)
- `PROCESSING_STATE` (default: `processing`)
- `PROCESSED_STATE` (default: `done`)
- `DONE_STATE` (default: `done`)
- `FAILED_STATE` (default: `failed`)
- `R2_ENDPOINT_URL` (required when `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr`)
- `R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID` (required when `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr`)
- `R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` (required when `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr`)
- `R2_BUCKET` (required when `WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr`)
- `R2_REGION` (default: `auto`)
- `R2_KEY_PREFIX` (optional object-key prefix)
- `PADDLE_PDX_DISABLE_MODEL_SOURCE_CHECK` (optional, recommended: `True` for container runtime)

## Fixture Payload Contract

Fixture payload must be a JSON object and include:

- `schedule_date`: ISO date string (`YYYY-MM-DD`)
- any additional deterministic fields (for now, sample uses `entries`)

Example:

```json
{
  "schedule_date": "2026-02-10",
  "entries": [
    {"start": "10:00", "end": "14:00", "title": "Cleaning", "location": "Billdal"}
  ]
}
```

## Layout Parser (Phase 4 Pre-OCR)

Module: `parser/layout_parser.py`

Main API:

```python
parse_layout(boxes: list[Box]) -> list[Entry]
```

Behavior:
- sorts boxes by geometry
- clusters boxes into lines
- groups lines into cards by vertical gaps
- extracts time/title/address/location per card
- ignores top UI chrome cards with no time line

## Run Once

```bash
uv run python main.py
```

The worker runs one claim/process cycle and exits.

## Run Forever (Background Worker)

```bash
uv run python -m worker.run_forever
```

The worker loops forever and periodically processes finalizable sessions.

## Docker Deployment

Build:

```bash
docker build -t telegram-ocr-worker:latest .
```

Run:

```bash
docker run --rm \
  -e DATABASE_URL="$DATABASE_URL" \
  -e WORKER_INPUT_MODE=ocr \
  -e WORKER_POLL_SECONDS=5 \
  -e SESSION_IDLE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS=25 \
  -e R2_ENDPOINT_URL="$R2_ENDPOINT_URL" \
  -e R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID="$R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID" \
  -e R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="$R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY" \
  -e R2_BUCKET="$R2_BUCKET" \
  -e PADDLE_PDX_DISABLE_MODEL_SOURCE_CHECK=True \
  telegram-ocr-worker:latest
```

Notes:
- no ports are exposed
- logs are emitted to stdout only

## Compose Service Labels (Promtail/Loki)

The worker service definition in `/Users/themis/Desktop/Dev/ocr/docker-compose.yml` includes container labels:

- `service=telegram-ocr-worker`
- `logging=promtail`

This allows Promtail to attach `service=telegram-ocr-worker` and enables Loki queries like:

```logql
{service="telegram-ocr-worker"}
```

## How To Test

1. Ensure at least one session is claimable:
   - `state = pending`, or
   - stale `state = processing` (`locked_at` older than lease timeout)
2. Run the worker once.
3. Verify for the processed session:
   - exactly one new row in `schedule_version`
   - `day_schedule.current_version` set/advanced by DB trigger
   - lease fields (`locked_at`, `locked_by`) cleared
   - `capture_session.state = done`
4. Edit fixture payload (e.g., change an entry time), enqueue a new session, rerun.
5. Verify:
   - new `schedule_version` row inserted with incremented version
   - previous versions remain immutable
   - `day_schedule.current_version` points to latest version
6. Noise stability check:
   - enqueue multiple sessions with identical semantic fixture data
   - run with `ENABLE_CHAOS_PARSER=true` and varying `CHAOS_SEED`
   - verify `schedule_version` count for that date stays `1`

### Integration Tests

If you provide `TEST_DATABASE_URL` (or `DATABASE_URL`), run:

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_layout_parser.py tests/test_main_worker.py tests/test_integration_claim_locking.py tests/test_integration_fixture_versioning.py
```

Coverage:
- claim/finalize race safety (`tests/test_integration_claim_locking.py`)
- fixture payload version timeline (`tests/test_integration_fixture_versioning.py`)
- chaos noise does not create phantom versions (`tests/test_integration_fixture_versioning.py`)
- synthetic layout reconstruction (single card, stacked cards, wrapped address, header ignore, jitter, landscape columns) (`tests/test_layout_parser.py`)
- unit checks for fixture parsing + insert SQL parameterization (`tests/test_main_worker.py`)

### OCR Adapter Golden Tests (No DB)

Uses real screenshot fixtures and verifies:
`image -> PaddleOCR boxes -> parse_layout -> expected entries`.

```bash
PADDLE_PDX_DISABLE_MODEL_SOURCE_CHECK=true uv run python -m unittest tests/test_paddle_adapter.py tests/test_ocr_golden_samples.py
```

### Semantic Normalizer Tests (No DB)

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_semantic_normalizer.py
```

### Entity Identity Tests (No DB)

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_entity_identity.py
```

### Schedule Diff Tests (No DB)

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_schedule_diff.py
```

### Session Aggregation Tests (No DB)

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_session_aggregate.py
```

### Event Store Tests (DB Integration)

Requires `TEST_DATABASE_URL` or `DATABASE_URL`:

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_event_store.py
```

### Notification Rules Tests (No DB)

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_notification_rules.py
```

### Session Lifecycle Tests (DB Integration)

Requires `TEST_DATABASE_URL` or `DATABASE_URL`:

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_session_lifecycle.py
```

### Notification Store Tests (DB Integration)

Requires `TEST_DATABASE_URL` or `DATABASE_URL`:

```bash
uv run python -m unittest tests/test_notification_store.py
```

## Invariants Enforced

- finalization requires lease ownership (`locked_by` guard in SQL)
- schedule version insert requires lease ownership (`locked_by` guard in SQL)
- one schedule_version per session (`UNIQUE(session_id)`)
- heartbeat safety check: `LEASE_HEARTBEAT_SECONDS < LEASE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS / 3`
